# Uncovering-latent-patterns-in-mobile-traffic-data-along-space-time-and-app-dimensions

## Introduction
Personal mobile communication technologies are amongst the most successful innovations of the 21st century. The widespread adoption of mobile services has resulted
 in an exponential surge in mobile traffic, which effectively mirrors human behavior. Mobile devices maintain a continuous interaction with network infrastructure, and the associated geo-referenced
events can be easily logged by service providers, for different purposes, including billing and resource management. This leads to the implicit potential of monitoring a significant portion
of the entire population at a minimal cost which no other technology provides an equivalent coverage.


In this context, analyzing mobile traffic along space, time, and app dimensions can provide
actionable insights for improving user experience, optimizing resource allocation, enhancing
security, and driving business success in the mobile app and service industry. In this
project, after performing various data preprocessing procedures, including uplink and downlink
traffic aggregation, time and space aggregation as well as scaling, we utilize the Tucker
decomposition method to extract latent factors, which represent patterns across the dimensions
of space, time, and mobile applications. We apply the technique to real-world mobile
traffic data generated by a variety of mobile applications (for example Facebook, Gmail,
Skype, Uber etc.) within Paris, France, during 77 consecutive days for every 15 minutes
interval.

This project was carried out at Imdea Networks institute (Madrid, Spain) as 
part of my internship and master thesis. The thesis report is published at [Polito webthesis portal](https://webthesis.biblio.polito.it/29012/).

## Dataset

I have used NetMob23 dataset for this project. The dataset was published as 
[NetMob 2023 Data Challenge](https://netmob2023challenge.networks.imdea.org/)
organized by IMDEA Networks and Orange in 2023. The full description of this dataset 
can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06933).

This dataset contains mobile traffic information of 

- 20 urban areas in France
- 68 mobile services
- 77 days continuous days
- 100 x 100 m2 spatial resolution
- 15 minute temporal resolution
- 400+ billion data points
- 2.3+ TB of data



